let's design Twitter together
really quickly before we jump in if you
want to try this very question along
with dozens of others for yourself head
over to helloneterview.com there you'll
be able to answer questions directly on
an interactive AI powered whiteboard
you'll get instant feedback on your
design from an AI trained by myself and
my co-founder a former Fang hiring
manager there's no faster way to ramp up
for your upcoming system design
interviews so I highly recommend you go
over there and give it a try
designing a micro blogging service like
Twitter consistently ranks as one of the
top five system design interview
questions asked that the world's biggest
companies like Facebook Amazon Netflix
and Google as a former staff engineer at
meta I conducted hundreds of interviews
and over that period of time I saw
exactly what it takes for candidates to
stand out as we go all call out those
subtle dues and don'ts my goal is to
make you feel as prepared as possible
come interview Deck with stop wasting
time and let's Jump Right In
in any system design interview that you
do the very first step is going to be to
make sure that you understand the
requirements of the system now there's
two main goals in this section first
it's to make sure that you and your
interviewer are on the same page before
you start designing second it's for you
to get a clear understanding of the
features that you're going to support in
your design you're going to come back
and reference this list time and time
again throughout the remainder of the
interview now we break the requirements
into two categories
the first is what we call functional
requirements the functional requirements
are the core features that the users
expect from the system
so for example this would be being able
to create tweets next we have the
non-functional requirements these are
the system's quality attributes so
security reliability performance that
all fits into the non-functional
requirements so for our service like
Twitter the functional requirements
would be things like this the user
should be able to create an account and
log in users should be able to create
edit and delete tweets they should be
able to follow other users they should
be able to view the tweets of the people
that they're following on their home
page in other words the timeline they
should be able to like and reply and
retweet to other people's tweets and
users should be able to search for
tweets for the non-functional
requirements this system should be able
to scale to support hundreds of millions
of daily active users as such the system
should handle a high volume of tweets
created and read every day
it should be highly available ensuring
the system can be accessed at any time
of day with 99.99 uptime the system
should ensure the security and privacy
of user data and importantly it should
have incredibly low latency so there
shouldn't be a lot of time that users
are spent waiting for the tweets to load
keep in mind for the functional
requirements in particular this is far
from a complete list the real Twitter
has DMS complex Integrity systems ad
networks the list goes on and on and on
but the reality is they had 17 years to
build it and we have 45 minutes in an
interview
so in your interview you want to make
sure that you pick the core requirements
and then you touch base with your
interviewer to make sure that you guys
agree on the features that you're going
to include in your system
important Pro tip here do not spend more
than five minutes on this section
spending too much time here is one of
the largest mistakes that I'll see
candidates make time and time again the
reality is is that while the
requirements are incredibly important
they are not the most interesting part
of the interviewer so get your
requirements down and move on to the far
more interesting bits
all right let's start designing this
thing so it's always most logical to
work left to right across the request
lifecycle when you're designing on a
whiteboard so the very first thing that
we're going to add is our clients we're
going to include both a web app our
website and a mobile application IOS and
Android
from here requests sent from the client
hit our load balancer what's a load
balancer load balancers distribute
incoming traffic across multiple servers
and they're key to scalability in just
about every single system design
interview that you're going to do now
when we talk about load balancers there
are two relevant points of discussion
that are worth bringing up in your
interview
the first is the routing algorithm this
determines how the load balancer
distributes incoming requests to the
backend servers common algorithms
include round robin which rotates
requests evenly across all servers least
connections which sends requests to the
server that has the fewest current
connections and IP hash which routes
based on the IP address of the client
this ensures that the same IP gets the
same server for each request
second is the layer in the OSI model
that the load balancer operates at so
load balancers can operate at different
layers the most common are layer 4 or
transport layer is like TCP and layer 7
the application layer the HTTP and https
layer 7 load balancers are interesting
because they can make routing decisions
based on the actual content of the
request such as the URL or the header
okay so for our Twitter like system for
our routing algorithm we're going to opt
for round robin router it's simple it's
fair we have no need for persistent
connections and our backend servers are
going to be stateless so this works
great
and then our load balancer is going to
be a layer 7 load balancers this means
that it operates at the application
layer and then we can make content-based
routing decisions for feature rollouts
and then support more complex traffic
management and things like this as our
system scales
all right but what are our load
balancers Distributing traffic to well
that's going to be a fleet of servers
serving as our API Gateway
we're using an API Gateway here because
we've opted for a micro service
architecture
this just means that our service is
broken down into smaller independent
services that can communicate with one
another in each one of these Services is
strictly responsible for a specific
piece of functionality within the larger
system
now the API gateways responsibility is
to take the incoming request from the
load balancer and forward them on to the
appropriate service it's worth
mentioning that these three components
the client the load balancer and the API
Gateway are going to be present in
roughly 90 of the system design
interviews that you do so when in doubt
is usually a pretty good place to start
the next thing for us to do is to lay
out the key Services typically this
matches really really closely with the
system's core functional requirements
that we came up with earlier so let me
get those back up on the screen and
we'll walk through them one by one
so first users should be able to create
edit and delete tweets great that's easy
let's add a tweet crud service to handle
exactly that crud just stands for create
read update and delete
now users should be able to like retweet
and reply to tweets likes and read
tweets are just updates to existing
tweets so those will be handled within
our tweet crud service but for replies
let's create a separate service to
handle those this allows us to scale
replies independently which will be
particularly crucial for things like
viral tweets
and then let's add a search service to
handle searching for tweets we'll add a
timeline service to handle timeline
creation
and then lastly a profile service to
handle account creation profile
management this will also be responsible
for managing followers and the social
graph
the next step is for us to go service by
service and we're going to ensure that
each one is equipped to fulfill their
necessary requirements
so let's start with our tweet crud
service again this needs to be able to
create edit and delete tweets it also
needs to support tweet likes retweets it
needs to handle the metadata associated
with each tweet this is things like
timestamps user IDs and any media
attachment and then in terms of the
non-functional requirements this service
needs to be designed to handle really
high throughput this is because tweets
likes and retweets are some of the most
frequent operations on Twitter
particularly reads so let's make sure
that we keep that in mind while
designing as well
let's talk about how we're going to
store the tweets Twitter actually uses
an internal nosql database that they've
named Manhattan and similarly we'll use
a nosql documentdb as well but we're
just going to use an open source
alternative like mongodb
this is a solid choice because of
mongodb's performance efficiencies it's
really really good for applications that
require rapid and frequent read and
write operations just like our Twitter
app it's also a good choice because we
won't have any complex joins on tweets
when a user requests a tweet we just
need to return that document
the Tweet document itself is just Json
it's key value pairs that store all the
important information about that tweet
here's an example of what a tweet
document might look like it has who
created the Tweet the contents of the
Tweet metadata like timestamps hashtags
and mentions even the location and of
course we'll include the media retweets
likes things like that all directly on
the document
while we've stored references to the
attached media directly in the Tweet
document we need to store the media
itself somewhere
for this we're going to use an object
store like Amazon S3 and there's a good
reason why media is almost universally
stored in Blob storage systems like S3
they're built to handle this vast amount
of unstructured data and they ensure
that the media retrieval is super fast
and seamless no matter what the scale is
so if you're in an interview and you're
dealing with media there's a really high
chance that you should be storing it in
Blob storage and Amazon S3 is a great
choice
great so our right path is starting to
become super clear users are going to
send a right post request or load
balancer will then take that request and
send it to our API Gateway our API
Gateway is going to forward along to our
tweet crud service
and then the Tweet crud service will
upload any media to S3 and create a new
document in our document store with the
contents of that Suite updates or edits
are going to follow a very similar path
there's one more thing to consider here
we want to make sure that users can't
flood our system with write requests
this would usually just be bought
activity and would degrade the quality
of the service that we're trying to
provide so let's make sure that doesn't
happen and add a rate limiter along the
right path to limit the number of tweets
that any given user can create over a
period of time
after that we'll just add our arrows and
our right path is looking good
now let's move over and focus on our
read path our main concern here is that
things are going to be lightning quick
so to ensure that let's make sure that
we add a cache on the read path which is
going to Cache our popular tweets this
cache which can be either redis or
memcache is going to ensure that the
frequently accessed tweets are served
rapidly and they don't need to hit our
database every single time
last thing here in order to further
optimize content delivery especially for
our Global users let's also add a CDN to
distribute and serve the static content
media assets and even frequently
accessed tweets
this is going to put that content closer
to the user's geographic location this
will reduce latency and ensure that
people all around the world have a
Snappy user experience while browsing
our site
we're just going to add our last handful
of arrows here and just like that the
read path looks great
all right let's keep working our way
down our list of services moving on now
to our reply crud service
for writes we're going to store replies
in a separate document store now I know
what you might be thinking and that's
why don't we just store replies directly
within the Tweet document and to be
honest this isn't a terrible idea
particularly if we had a really small
service but there's a list of compelling
reasons for why we want to keep them
separate
the first is scalability popular tweets
can Garner thousands of replies so
storing them separately not only ensures
that the Tweet document doesn't become
too large and unwieldy but more
importantly it allows us to scale the
reply service entirely independently
now the second reason is for performance
by keeping replies separate we can fetch
a tweet without necessarily loading all
of its replies this makes the read
really fast for a tweet and if you've
ever used Twitter you see exactly this
you load a tweet and you see maybe the
first dozen 20 50 replies but it's not
until you scroll lower it that you load
the remainder of the replies
and then just like with replies we're
going to add a rate limiter on the right
path to limit the negative impact that
Bots can have on the service then we'll
just add our arrows and just like that
the right path for our replies looks
good
now when it comes to reading these
replies we're going to mix things up
just a little bit because instead of
letting users read replies separately
which if you think about it doesn't make
that much sense we're going to be
bundling them right in with the tweets
so this means that when you pull up a
tweet you'll automatically see its
replies or at least a portion of them
to make this Snappy our reply database
needs to be indexed by tweet ID so this
means every time we go to grab a tweet
we're also swiftly fetching and caching
its replies from the replies DB
here's an example of what a reply
document might look like
as you can see it looks really similar
to the Tweet document
the notable Edition being that tweet ID
field which we built the index on
awesome taking a step back we can now
create edit retweet like and reply to
tweets our Twitter app is starting to
shape up really nicely and at this point
we have a pretty usable product
so continuing to move down our list of
services the next thing we get to is
search Twitter search like many of these
components is really complex and could
be an interview question all on its own
that said we'll take a simplified
approach and just handle the basics here
we're going to need searches to be
lightning fast so while the simplest
approach here would be just to iterate
through our Tweets in our document DB to
try to find tweets that match any Search
terms or instead you can add a separate
text-based index with elasticsearch
we'll create reverse indexes on tweet
content username and hashtag within
elasticsearch which is going to allow us
to quickly search for specific tweets
profiles or trending topics with minimal
latency elasticsearch is a distributed
search engine that's designed to handle
really large data sets with low latency
and high reliability so it's
particularly useful for applications
that require full text search like our
Twitter app
if you're in an interview and you need
full text search elasticsearch is likely
a really strong bet
a is going to make its way into
elasticsearch via what is called change
data capture or CDC this process
captures and tracks changes in the Tweet
data ensuring that our elastic search
index remains up to date with the latest
information from our tweet document
store so as updates are made to the
tweetdb those changes will automatically
be propagated to elasticsearch
next up is the timeline service and this
is where things tend to get really fun
in an interview that's about a social
media site whether it's design Facebook
or design Twitter you're often going to
spend a good amount of the interview on
this exact service
now for our purposes we're going to
simplify things a bit and we're going to
generate a timeline that's just made up
of posts from your friends this means
that we don't have to focus on a
recommendation system at all
the simplest way to construct a timeline
is by doing what's often referred to as
fan out on read when a user requests
their timeline we query the list of
accounts that they follow fetch all of
the tweets from these accounts sort by
time and then return the timeline
as you can tell this is pretty slow and
expensive so it would fail to satisfy
our non-functional requirements around
low latency retrievals
so instead we can Leverage The Power of
asynchronous operations by updating
friends timelines whenever a user
creates a new tweet this strategy is
termed fena on right here's how it works
for every newly created tweet they're
going to get promptly placed on a
message queue this queue acts as a
buffer it ensures that we're not
immediately overwhelming subsequent
operations especially since so many
tweets are often created at the exact
same time
now workers dedicated to our fan out
service are always on the lookout
they're going to be pulling these tweets
off of this message queue one after
another for each tweet that they grab
they'll run a query to fetch the list of
followers for that tweets author
once we have the list of followers then
the magic happens each follower has a
timeline cache a quick access store that
holds the most recent tweets from the
people that they follow our workers job
is to update this cache it takes the new
tweet and prepends it to the start of
each followers timeline cache this makes
sure that the next time any of these
followers check their timeline the new
tweet is right there at the top waiting
for them
so this fan out on ride approach while
it's more right intensive ensures that
reading our users timelines is lightning
fast because the data is already
prepared and just waiting in that cache
it's a trade-off that prioritizes read
speed which matches our non-functional
requirements from earlier so it's great
there is one catch though and that's for
users with millions of followers like
Elon or Drake the sheer volume of
updates that we would need to make to
all of their followers caches could
overwhelm the system
so for these I don't know call them Mega
influencers we need a hybrid approach
while fan out on right works well for
the average user for these high profile
accounts we might want to lean towards
fan on read this means that instead of
immediately updating every follower's
timeline when a celebrity tweets we wait
when a follower of Elon or Drake checks
their timeline the system then fetches
the latest tweets from the mega account
and integrates them into the user's feed
from the cache
all right we're almost there all we have
left is the profile service as a quick
reminder this needs to support creating
and managing both user profiles and
followers
we'll offer a simple SQL database for
the user data this will be traditional
relational rows with columns for things
like username email bio and all that
good stuff
SQL is a good choice for Twitter's user
data because it allows for efficient
querying on structured user attributes
and ensures data Integrity with acid
transactions and it can handle complex
joins and aggregations for user
Analytics
for the follower connections we're
diving into a graph DB why well graph
databases are tailor-made for mapping
out networks especially social ties plus
as our app grows this graph becomes a
gold mine for advanced features like
recommendation systems suggesting new
followers and keeping things safe with
our integrity system we're also going to
spin up a separate service for auth
which our profile service will lean on
for authentication and authorization
why separate this out well
authentication and access management are
critical in specialized tasks by
isolating them we ensure tighter
security more Focus maintenance and most
importantly the flexibility to integrate
with other services or third-party
systems in the future without tangling
up our main user profile logic
oops it looks like we missed one Edge
from our CDN to our client so let me go
back and add that and then boom there it
is a complete system designed for a
service like Twitter
but we can't celebrate just yet no
system design interview is complete
without touching on security monitoring
and testing so let's spend a moment for
each of those
let's start by briefly touching on
security there are four main
considerations here the first is
authentication and authorization this is
to make sure that every request comes
from a legitimate user and that the
users have the right permissions to
perform the requested action in our
system this is all handled by our auth
service under the profile service
second is data encryption all user data
both at rest and in transit should be
encrypted we use https for encrypting
data that's in transit ensuring that the
data exchange between our client and the
servers remains confidential and
tamper-proof for data at rest most
modern databases have native support for
data encryption so this is usually as
simple as just flipping a switch
next is rate limiting now remember we
already discussed rate limiting for
tweets and replies specifically but it's
also crucial to prevent DDOS attacks for
this we do IP rate limiting within our
API Gateway this means that requests
from a single IP address are limited to
a certain number within a specified time
frame preventing any single user or bot
from overwhelming our system
lastly we need to consider input
validation on our client here we'll
validate and sanitize any user input to
prevent things like SQL injection
cross-site scripting or other malicious
attacks
typically we'll want to protect against
things like this both on the client and
on the server
now it's still in the monitoring there
are three key aspects to consider the
first is system health checks it's
crucial to keep an eye on the health of
our service if any component like our
tweet crud service or our profile
service goes down or becomes
unresponsive we need to know this
immediately for this we can utilize
tools like Prometheus and integrate with
grafana so that we have a nice visual
dashboard these tools will monitor our
services and provide real-time metrics
on their performance
second is logging every action from a
tweet being posted to a user logging in
should be logged this AIDS in debugging
and tracking potential security threats
in our design we'll use an elk stack
stands for elasticsearch log stash and
Cabana elasticsearch will store our logs
logstash will process them and Cabana
will provide a visual interface to
analyze these logs all our services
including the API Gateway and the
databases will send logs to the central
system
to avoid having to draw out all those
lines I'm going to Simply add a general
elk component to our design and we're
going to have to use our imagination to
understand that all of the services have
an edge to this component
last up is real-time alerts
if there's a sudden surge in traffic or
multiple failed login attempts we need
to be notified integrating something
like alert manager or pagerduty with
Prometheus that we talked about earlier
can help send notifications by email
slack or any other channel so that we're
immediately notified and can quickly
respond when something bad happens
last but not least let's briefly talk
about testing
first up is load testing before
introducing any new feature we need to
see how our system especially services
like the Tweet service or profile
service hold up under the new pressure
this will allow us to pinpoint
bottlenecks and potential failures
second is automated testing given our
microservice architecture it's
particularly important that our services
integrate seamlessly every time there's
a Code change RCI tools or our
continuous integration tools such as
Jenkins or maybe GitHub actions are
going to automatically run both unit
tests which check individual components
and integration tests which ensure that
the services communicate effectively
lastly we need to talk about testing our
backup and recovery so our data is
invaluable regular backups are
non-negotiable and will need to
periodically test our recovery process
this is to ensure that in the unlikely
event of a system failure we can restore
our Twitter clones operation swiftly
we just walked through the design of a
simplified Twitter we talked about
microservices scaling we talked about
handling timeline generation data
storage and all the many intricacies
that come along with it we touched a
little bit on security and monitoring
and testing and at the end of the day I
think we put together a pretty robust
system that would do excellent in a
system design interview now if you want
to try this interview for yourself and I
strongly recommend that you do then you
should head over to hellointernview.com
and this is where you can try this
interview or dozens of others on an AI
powered interactive light board where
you'll get instant feedback from an AI
that was trained by myself and my
co-founder who's a former Fang hiring
manager alright thanks so much for
watching Everybody if you have questions
leave them in the comments I'll be
answering them as quickly as I can